Add 'Trash in, Treasure out' blog post (#2573)
mainmatter/mainmatter.com: src/posts/2024-12-02-trash-in-treasure-out.md

        PASS [   0.051s] takeoff::main test_set_bad_origin::non_utf_8_sequence
        PASS [   0.052s] takeoff::main test_hiding_payment_details
------------
     Summary [   0.052s] 7 tests run: 7 passed, 0 skipped
```

There you go! With that, we've ensured that once our `PaymentInfo` is instantiated, it'll be quite hard to accidentally leak its contents. Completely hiding the payment info from everything would make it rather unuseful, but at least we can't accidentally log them or send them in a response, preventing a very likely cause of leaking information.

## Wrapping up

We've reached a lot already! We've created meaningful types for handling the data in our model, ensured they're valid by construction, and that they don't leak sensitive information. With that, our API has become much more robust than the version we started out with. Let's summarize what we've achieved with that.

In the [introduction](#trash-in-treasure-out), I listed three pieces of advice:

> 1. Encode the semantics/states of your application in the type system and your API.
> 2. Ensure input gets parsed into rigid structs before acceptance.

> > 3. Ensure output gets encoded in the correct format and doesn’t leak (sensitive) information.

Reviewer: not sure this should look like this?

![Bildschirmfoto 2024-12-06 um 15 13 12](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/708a0874-5f1b-43de-8a9f-9b0c835c1663)

Author: I guess? It's a quote after all. I don't particularly hate it

> # Trash in, treasure out

Reviewer 2: The CI fails because the post doesn't contain frontmatter data at the top of the file.

See [example](https://github.com/mainmatter/mainmatter.com/blob/master/src/posts/2024-10-30-introducing-sheepdogjs.md?plain=1)

*Making your API clear and robust with Rust's type system*

By now, you're probably aware that at Mainmatter, we like Rust a lot. If you
aren't: [have a look at our Rust page](https://mainmatter.com/rust-consulting/).
In this blog post, I'd like to highlight one of my favorite traits of Rust (yes
pun intended): its focus on _correctness_. Rust has a very expressive type
system that lets you offload many checks to the compiler: it supports generics,
data-carrying enums, closures, visibility specifiers, _explicit_ conversions, and
much more. These are neat features that make performant, low-level programming 
feel as ergonomic as high-level languages. Sure, Rust has a learning curve, and

> thatlearning curve is a result of Rust's tendency to make complexity really _in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that learning curve is a result of Rust's tendency to make complexity really _in
```

your face_.

Make no mistake, every piece of software is complex: it has to run on
computers, which, especially nowadays are complex beasts. And writing
software with highly optimized languages with manual memory management like

> C, C++, or Rust requires knowledge of all kinds of subtleties. Rust makes these

Reviewer: I find this confusing as it sounds like Rust had manual management as well?

Reviewer: I see what you mean but is that really how people talk about Rust's approach? I've always told people it does explicitly not require manual memory management like C or C++ but automatic compile time mm (and you need to follow certain rules to enable that).

Anyway, you've been in the Rust ecosystem for longer and much deeper than I have – if this is how people think/talk about this, I'm fine.

interpreted and acted upon correctly. I don't know about you, but I'm way too
pedantic to see that go flawlessly.

Now, this is why I like Rust's expressive type system: it lets me encode a great
deal of the semantics I'd otherwise have to describe in the documentation. You
can craft your APIs and types such that using your library or module becomes
very hard or even impossible. You can encode the _intent_ and _invariants_
regarding your code using the type system. This way you get the Rust compiler
on _your_ side. It will be able to pick up subtle errors caused by your API
users holding it wrong. And it will do so _at compile time_, greatly shortening
the feedback loop. It makes adding features, refactoring, and reviewing much
less error-prone. And it's great for security as well. It's where coding meets
art, really.

In this article, I'd like to give three main pieces of advice:
1. Encode the semantics/states of your application in the type system and your
  API.
2. Ensure input gets parsed into rigid structs before acceptance.
3. Ensure output gets encoded in the correct format and doesn’t leak (sensitive)
  information.

## Ticket to heaven

> We'll need a case to show how all this works, and since Mainmatter loves the
> travel industry, let's write up an API for booking train tickets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll need a case to show how all this works, and since Mainmatter [loves the
travel industry](/travel/), let's write up an API for booking train tickets.
```

can't hurt to link to the landing page for context

Are there any downsides? As always: yes, this is no silver bullet. One thing you
probably have noticed so far is that the patterns described in this post
introduce a bunch of boilerplate. There are crates (e.g. [`nutype`]) out there
that aim to reduce this, but they come with their own trade-offs. Furthermore,
sometimes not all invariants can be expressed in Rust code. In such cases, one
still has to rely on documentation to be thorough and correct.

Other than that, rigidity may not always be what you want. Sometimes your
invariants and requirements are not all that clear, and are very subject to
change. In such cases, it's not great to update loads of boilerplate all the
time. This, I think, is a bit of a matter of taste: I myself like to force
myself to clarify the requirements and invariants before implementation, and
with the validation being implemented in a single place, updating that is not
such a big hassle. And what you get back is huge: correct, robust, clear, and 
maintainable code!

*In [step 4], I've updated the rest of the method handlers. Be sure to have a
look!*

[step 0]: todo
[step 1]: todo
[step 2]: todo

> [step 3]: todo

Reviewer: I guess these should be links to the example repo?

Author: Yup. But I might still do some rebasing. I expect to update these next friday

Reviewer: let's get this out before Friday

Author: In that case, someone else will have to do the links as I'm off until Friday. The commit history should on the companion repo should be clear enough. I guess it's fine if we update the links later it need be

Reviewer: Oh, I see – in that case I guess let's get this out on Friday
